Hello, my name is Josh Graessley and
I'm going to be going over
networking best practices today.
Networking is a little bit different
from a lot of other things on the
system where you're interacting
with an environment that you don't
necessarily have a lot of control over.
And it can be a real challenge
to know what you can modify to
improve the situation and what
you just have to simply live with.
You can't control the networks
that your users are going
to use your applications on,
but you can control how well your
applications perform on those networks.
We're going to go into detail about
how networking actually works so
that you'll have a better idea
about what you have control over and
what you don't have control over.
Networking can be really tricky.
When we deal with a network
at the lowest layers,
we have nothing but packets,
and packets can be reordered,
packets can become corrupt,
packets can get dropped completely.
Dealing with that complexity
can be a real challenge.
Fortunately,
the system and the network in general
provide a lot of abstractions that
hide a lot of that complexity from
your application and give you a chance
to actually get something accomplished.
The only downside to these abstractions
is that they tend to hide the true cost.
There are some things that
end up leaking through,
and if you don't understand how
these things work under the covers,
then you can run into certain pitfalls.
We're going to be going over the best
practices to avoid those pitfalls.
We'll also talk about the best layer
that you can take advantage of.
First we're going to
cover network performance.
Network performance is something that
people usually run into trouble with.
We're going to go into
details about how TCP works,
and we'll also cover HTTP,
and we'll cover a lot of the APIs that
are available on the system to
take advantage of these protocols.
We're going to finish off with some
mobility and cost issues and also
cover some debugging tips and tricks.
First, network performance.
There are two metrics to
a network's performance:
bandwidth and latency.
Bandwidth is something that
you read about all the time.
All the ISPs advertise how many bits
per second you can send or receive.
Everyone has a pretty good
idea about what bandwidth is.
In this diagram,
we have an iPhone on one side,
and we have a server that we're
talking to on the other side.
We actually have to transit
a bunch of different links in
order to get to that server.
Our bandwidth is going to be
limited by what we're going
to call the bottleneck link.
In this particular case,
the DSL line is the one
with the lowest bandwidth,
so that's our bottleneck.
That's basically dictating the
maximum amount of bandwidth
that we have available to
communicate with that server.
Because it's not the
first link in the hop,
we can't necessarily find out
how much bandwidth is available.
There's also an issue that
we might be sharing that link
with a bunch of other devices,
so we can't make assumptions about
whether or not that bandwidth is
going to stay the same the whole time.
The only way to know how much bandwidth
is available is to put some load on the
network and then actually measure it
and see how much bandwidth we got back.
When we're putting load on the network,
it's really important to make
sure that we use that load
for something productive.
We don't want to just download a whole
bunch of bytes that we throw away because
it's going to cost us power and it may
end up costing the user some money.
It's also really important to remember
that bandwidth may fluctuate over time,
so we don't want to perform a test
and then make some assumptions
that our bandwidth is going to
be the same all the way through.
Netflix is actually a really good
example of an application that
handles changes in bandwidth well.
Netflix uses HTTP live streaming,
which has a bunch of different
reference movies at different bit rates.
When Netflix starts,
it picks a fairly conservative
bit rate video to download,
and then if it's playing back
slower than it's downloading,
it'll actually switch to a higher
bit rate video to take advantage
of the additional bandwidth.
If it's actually downloading
slower than it's playing back,
it has to switch to a lower bit rate,
lower quality video.
Netflix continues to do this over
time and it adapts very well.
Compression is about the only
trick that you have to work
around limited bandwidth.
Other than that,
you're just going to end up having
to wait for things to come down.
In my mind,
the more interesting measure of a
network's performance is the latency.
The latency is the round trip
time between your device and
the server you're talking to.
This includes the time it takes to
transit all the links to the server
and to transit all the way back.
This is usually measured in milliseconds.
The round trip time includes the
amount of time that the packets
have to spend in queues as well
as the time spent on links.
As the network congestion tends to go up,
the queues will be a little bit more full
and your packets will end up spending
more time stuck in those queues before
they get to go across the network.
As the load and congestion
on the network goes up,
the round trip times are going to go up.
Latency is one place
where your application,
if it's designed properly,
can do a lot more than
just a few seconds.
You can also use the high
latency network to hide a high
latency network from the user.
This is one place where you can make
some huge performance improvements.
So we're going to go
over some techniques.
The first and most important thing
to do is make sure that all of your
networking is performed asynchronously.
It's really important that you provide a
very responsive user interface while you
have any networking operation going on.
One trick you can use is placeholders.
If you're going to show a list of users,
you can show the whole list of users
with placeholders next to them for
icons that you don't have at the time.
As the icons come in off the network,
you can fill in the placeholder.
The user gets the whole
list very quickly,
and they don't have to wait around.
Another really important technique
is to use a single connection or the
fewest possible connections and have
a number of outstanding concurrent
requests on those connections.
If you're using HTTP,
there's a technique called pipelining.
If you can take advantage of pipelining,
this will handle this for you.
We'll go into this in a
little bit depth later.
Another thing that's really important
to remember is that the network will
always add some delay to a request.
If you know you need some resource,
you can always add some
delay to a request.
If you know you need some resource,
you should go ahead and request
that as soon as you know you need
that as opposed to waiting longer.
All you'll do is add to the
amount of time that it will
take to get that resource back.
Finally, if you're using caching well,
if you can fetch something out
of the cache instead of having to
go out to the network to get it,
that comes back much, much quicker.
There's a kind of interesting interaction
between bandwidth and latency.
If you were to write a fairly naive
application that would send a packet,
and then when that packet
gets to the server,
we get an acknowledgment back.
When we get that acknowledgment back,
we send another packet.
If we have a network with a 60
millisecond round trip time,
we can send about 16 of
these round trips per second.
If a packet has about 1500 bytes in it,
that works out to about
200 kilobits a second.
Most people have much faster networks.
The only way to take full advantage
of all the throughput on a network
is to have a lot of outstanding
in-flight data at any given time.
You can use something called the
bandwidth delay product to calculate
the amount of information you need
to have in flight in order to take
full advantage of all the throughput.
You can do this by
multiplying the throughput.
In this case, 10 megabits per second
by the round trip time.
In this case, 60 milliseconds.
And you get about 60 kilobits that
need to be in flight at any given time.
Most of the time,
your applications won't know
how much bandwidth is available.
So you don't have to worry
about the specific details here.
The important thing to take
away is that you need to keep
your socket send buffer full.
You need to keep data
flowing all the time.
The system actually resized the socket
send buffer and receive buffer based
on the current bandwidth and delay.
And I use the bandwidth
delay product calculation.
So as a quick summary
of network performance,
there are two metrics,
bandwidth and latency.
And bandwidth is limited by
the minimum bottleneck link.
In the case of latency,
that's affected by all the
different links you have to cross.
Hiding latency is where you can
get big wins in your application.
If you want to take full advantage of
all the throughput that's available,
you need to be aware of the bandwidth
delay product and make sure that you
have as much data in flight as possible.
Now we're going to jump into TCP.
TCP stands for transmission
control protocol,
and normally when you're
working with Internet traffic
you're dealing with packets.
TCP provides a nice abstraction.
You get this virtual circuit or a
bidirectional serial byte stream.
There's no such thing as a connection
on the Internet in general.
Everything is sent as packets.
With a TCP connection,
you can shove a whole bunch of bytes into
the connection and come out in the server
on the other side in the same order.
If they get lost somewhere,
TCP will take care of retransmitting it.
If they become corrupt,
TCP will make sure that they get
dropped so they'll get retransmitted.
They come in out of order,
TCP will reorder all of it for you.
It simplifies a lot of your life.
It also provides flow control.
The Internet doesn't have any
sort of built-in flow control.
If you were to write an application
that spewed packets at the fastest
rate the interface would support,
all of those packets will go out
onto the network and then they'll
get dropped at the next hop.
There aren't a lot of great ways to
get feedback to know how many of those
packets are getting dropped or if any
of them are getting dropped at all.
There is no such thing as a
connection on the Internet.
All of the connection is stored in
state that's on both the device that's
establishing the connection and the
device the connection was established to.
There are some exceptions
like NATs and firewalls,
but for the most part,
nothing on the Internet knows
about your connection.
This is really nice because if some
device that you're communicating
through happens to crash or reboot,
the packets can be rerouted around that
and your connection remains running.
It's not all magic.
There's a lot of work that happens
under the covers to make this happen,
and there are some costs involved.
The first thing to know is that we
can't connect directly to a host name.
Most of the time we get from users
or from some other place a host
name that we want to connect to.
We first have to resolve that
to a list of addresses before
we can establish a connection.
So to do that,
we issue a DNS query and the
DNS server responds with a reply,
and that'll give us a list of addresses.
We'll pick one of those addresses,
and we'll use the TCP 3-way handshake
to establish the connection.
First,
we'll send a SYN packet to the server.
The server will respond with a SYN ACK,
and then we'll respond with an ACK.
The important thing to take away from
all of this is that for each of these
operations—the DNS request and the
TCP 3-way handshake—this will take
a minimum of one round-trip time.
So on a high-latency network,
this can take a lot of time.
If there's packet loss and we have
to count on a retransmit timer,
that can also add even
more time and more cost.
So anytime you establish
a new connection,
you can send a SYN packet to the server.
The server will respond with a SYN ACK,
and then we'll respond with an ACK.
If you don't establish a new connection,
there's a time cost.
If you can reuse existing connections,
you can sometimes avoid all of that
and get some big performance gains.
Once we have a connection established,
we need some way to keep track
of the data that we're sending.
TCP uses something called
sequence numbers for this.
When TCP sends a packet
with some payload,
it indicates the first sequence number
for the first byte of that payload,
as well as the length.
From that,
we can calculate the sequence number
of all the bytes inside the payload.
TCP uses this for the in-order delivery.
When TCP sends out of order,
it can use these sequence numbers
to properly reorder things.
It can also detect if there
are gaps of missing data.
It can use these sequence numbers
to acknowledge to the remote side,
"I've got everything up to this
sequence number," so the remote side
knows it no longer needs to hold
onto that data to retransmit it.
One thing to be aware of with
the sequence numbers is that
they don't start off with zero.
They actually use a
pseudo-random initial value.
If you're looking at
these values in tcpdump,
tcpdump fortunately normalizes these,
so it's a lot easier.
You can get a relative value.
sequence number instead
of an absolute number.
Once we have a connection
established and we know how we're
going to send and receive data,
we still don't know how
fast the network is.
TCP uses something called a slow
start to effectively probe the
network and slowly speed up until
it starts to get some packet loss.
So when you establish a new connection
and you start to send a lot of data,
you have to go through the slow start.
If we issue an HTTP get request to a
server and it's for a large resource,
the server can't just dump
all the packets on at once.
It starts out by sending
us a few packets.
When we acknowledge that,
we'll get a few more,
and this keeps going until we get up to
the full speed available on the network.
This isn't exactly accurate.
It's a little bit more complex than that.
But the important thing to
take away is that any time you
create a new TCP connection,
you're going to have to go
through the slow start again,
and that can take some time to speed up.
So again, it's really important to reuse
an existing TCP connection as
opposed to creating a new one.
Looking at packets in TCP dump
can be pretty difficult,
especially if you've got
10,000 packets to sort through.
TCP dump just shows you the
number of packets that you've got.
It shows you text.
It shows you the time stamps.
It shows you the sequence numbers
and a lot of other information.
Trying to find problems
can be a real challenge.
There's a wonderful open source tool
called TCP trace that generates these
great graphs that help you visualize
what's going on with the TCP connection.
This is a TCP trace time sequence graph.
I'm going to go over some of the
details because we're going to
look at two more of these graphs.
At the beginning,
we have a sequence packet
-- or a SYN packet.
Shortly thereafter,
we get our SYN ACK from the server,
and we immediately respond
with an ACK packet.
On the second packet,
we get a SYN packet.
On the top, we have the window.
This is the remote side telling
us don't send us anything beyond
this sequence number because
I don't have anywhere to store it.
On the bottom,
we have a green light that's
tracking the acknowledged number.
This is the remote side telling us I've
received every sequence up to this point.
Most importantly,
we have actual packets or
payload we can see in here.
We can see when the packets are sent,
and we can see how much data is in that
packet based on the height of the line.
We can also see the difference between
when the packet was sent and when
it was acknowledged by the server.
There's a lot of other great information
you can see by looking at these graphs.
You can detect problems with
retransmits or out-of-order data.
You can detect problems where the
server actually stopped reading,
so your acknowledged data
actually runs into the window.
If we look at a slow start,
this is an SCP connection.
At the beginning,
there's a bit of key exchange,
and then about 500 milliseconds in,
we start sending a lot of data.
And we can see that TCP does
a nice job of ramping up,
but it does take a few
hundred milliseconds.
And this is on a really fast
network with a low round-trip time.
If the round-trip time is higher,
there's higher latency,
this will take even longer.
Once TCP goes through slow start,
it switches over to the congestion
avoidance algorithm that takes
pretty good advantage of all the
bandwidth that's available on a
given network at any given time.
As the network bandwidth fluctuates,
it will fluctuate with it.
In this particular case,
we were able to take advantage of
all 50 megabit to the remote machine.
When a packet goes missing,
TCP needs some way to
retransmit that data.
If there's a lot of data
flowing at any given time,
we've got a whole bunch of payload
packets that are going from
the server to the client here,
and there's one in red that went missing.
Every packet that comes in
after the one that went missing
will trigger an immediate ACK,
and that ACK will say,
"I got everything up to this
sequence number." When the
server gets four acknowledgements
for the same sequence number,
it triggers something
called a fast retransmit.
The server immediately sends the
missing segment and continues
on with what it was doing.
In this particular case,
you can see we didn't really
interfere with the speed at
which we were transmitting data.
Everything just kept
going without a hiccup.
If we only have a little
bit of data flowing in a
TCP connection at any given time,
there's a good chance we may have
to count on the retransmit timer.
In this particular case,
we have a few payload packets
and the last one went missing.
We acknowledge all the data
that we have received so far,
but the remote side doesn't know
whether that packet is still in
flight somewhere so it waits for
the retransmit timer to fire.
Sometime later,
at least 200 milliseconds later,
it retransmits the missing segment.
The important thing to keep in mind
here is that if you're using a bunch of
different TCP connections and putting a
little bit of data over each connection,
you're going to be running
into the retransmit timer
a lot and that costs you.
If you can try and move all that
traffic onto a single TCP connection,
you can take advantage of the
fast retransmit timer and get
some big performance wins.
Another thing to be aware of
when you're working with TCP is
something called a SOX proxy.
Most of you probably don't
have SOX proxies you have to
deal with on a regular basis.
But some of your users may run
into one of these networks.
On these networks,
there's a firewall and the firewall will
block you from directly connecting to
the server that you're interested in.
Instead of connecting to the server,
you have to connect to the SOX proxy.
You then tell the SOX proxy you're
interested in connecting to some server.
The SOX proxy establishes the connection
to the server for you and then it
starts relaying data back and forth.
When you're using TCP,
it's really important to
remember to support SOX proxies.
If you're using the right
frameworks in the system,
it will handle SOX proxies for you.
But if you're rolling your own or
working at the socket's layer directly,
you need to make sure you have
SOX proxy support in there.
So as a wrap-up of the best
practices when using TCP,
first of all, use TCP.
It provides a bunch of great
services and people have invested
decades into improving TCP.
It's really unlikely you're
going to do a better job than
TCP does on a given network.
It's really important to reuse
existing TCP connections.
New connections cost a lot of time.
Between the three-way handshake,
the slow start,
and if there's packet loss,
if this is a high latency network,
this can add up.
It's also really important to
keep a lot of data in flight.
The last four packets on the
TCP connection are the ones that
are going to be sensitive to loss.
If you can keep more than four
packets in flight at any given time,
you're going to be able to take
advantage of the fast retransmit
and things will flow much better.
One technique you can use for this
is to double buffer operations.
Instead of serial
assigning your requests,
where you request something and
when the response comes back
you request the next thing,
you can issue a request for
multiple things so you always
have a lot of packets coming
back to you at any given time.
We're going to move into HTTP now.
HTTP provides a very nice
request response-based protocol.
All of the headers are based on text.
Parsing text can be a little bit tricky.
We have some great frameworks that will
handle this for you so you can avoid
some of the pitfalls of parsing text.
The nice thing about all of
these headers are that they
provide some very rich metadata,
so you can get some great information.
HTTP has support for caching.
There's also support for
an HTTP-specific proxy,
which we'll go into.
HTTP has a few interesting
things—persistent connections
and pipeline requests,
which we'll go into in more detail.
If you're dealing with HTTP,
you need to support SOX proxies,
and you also need to support
proxies called HTTP proxies.
HTTP proxies are slightly different.
When you talk to an HTTP proxy,
you don't tell it the server
you're interested in connecting to.
You actually hand the whole
HTTP request to the HTTP proxy.
The HTTP proxy will
forward this to the server,
or if it already has the resource
you're interested in cached,
it'll give the response
directly back to you.
If it comes back from the server,
it'll forward the response
back to you from the server.
HTTP 1.0 did not have support
for persistent connections.
With HTTP 1.0, it was very simple.
You opened a TCP connection.
You issued your request.
When you got a response back,
both you and the server
closed the connection.
If you wanted to do another request,
you had to open another TCP connection.
As we alluded to earlier,
establishing new TCP connections
is a really expensive operation.
They fixed this in HTTP 1.1
with persistent connections.
With a persistent connection,
we perform our three-way handshake
and establish a connection.
And then we issue our request.
When we get the response back,
we can go ahead and
issue another request.
The only downside to this is
that because we're issuing
all these requests serially,
we're having to pay at least one round
trip time for every request response.
HTTP has another technique
called pipelining.
With pipelining,
you establish a TCP connection,
and then you issue all the
requests at the same time,
and then the responses come back to back.
Instead of taking us
four round-trip times,
this has taken us two round-trip times.
This is a huge performance win.
In addition, because all the responses
are coming back to back,
we can take advantage
of fast retransmits.
Any time you can,
take advantage of HTTP pipelining.
If we look at this another way,
on the top,
we have a serial persistent connection,
and on the bottom, we're using pipelining
to get the same resource.
First, we get the root document,
we parse it,
we realize we need five resources.
If we're using the persistent connection,
we issue a request for
the first resource.
When that comes back,
we issue a request for the second
resource and so on and so forth.
If the round trip times are
small on a low latency network,
this isn't a really big deal.
As the latencies get a lot bigger,
you can get a huge win by
switching to pipelining where
you get your root document,
you parse it,
you realize you need five resources,
you issue the request for all
five resources at the same time,
and they come back back to back.
A really nice analogy is if you
were going to bake some cookies.
You pull out the cookbook,
you open it up,
you see that you need eggs.
So you go to the refrigerator,
you don't have any eggs.
You drive to the store,
you pick up the eggs, you come back,
and you look at the next
ingredient and it's sugar.
Now you go back into the car,
you drive to the store,
you pick up the sugar.
It's a really easy way to
get the next ingredient.
You go to the store,
you pick up the eggs, you come back,
and you look at the next ingredient,
and it's sugar.
It's a really inefficient way to bake.
You'll end up baking all day long.
If you were to put together a
list of everything you needed,
pay the round trip
time to the store once,
you can get all of those things at
once and save yourself a lot of time.
The iTunes store uses
HTTP on the back end,
and they did some performance
tests and realized that by
switching to using pipelining,
they were able to get almost a 3X
performance improvement on some networks.
So this isn't some small,
trivial improvement.
This is huge.
So wrapping up HTTP best practices,
when you're supporting HTTP,
make sure that you support
HTTP and SOX proxies.
You may never run into
one of these networks,
but there's a good chance
some of your customers will,
and they'll really appreciate
that you did the work to
make sure it'll work there.
Be sure that you support persistent
connections at the very least.
If you can, add support for pipelining.
Pipelining does require
server-side support.
Most servers, I believe, will support it,
but you'll want to check
with your IT department or if
you're running your own server,
just make sure that that's going to work.
Now we're going to go into the
APIs that you can use to take advantage
of these protocols on the system.
For TCP, the best API is CfSocketStream.
CfSocketStream provides a really nice
CF run loop integrated TCP connection.
It also works well with the CF types.
It provides a nice
connect by host name API.
If you're dealing with a sockets layer,
you're responsible for converting
a host name to a list of addresses,
and then telling the system to
connect to one of those addresses.
With CfSocketStream,
you just pass the host name into us,
and we'll take care of the rest for you.
We do some really sophisticated things
under the covers to try and establish
a connection in a short period of time.
When we resolve the host name,
we'll get back a list of addresses.
And we'll sort it based on
statistics and what we think is
going to be the best address.
We'll start a connection
attempt to what we believe is
going to be the best address.
We'll also start a timer based on how
long we expect that connection to take.
If that connection doesn't succeed within
the time we expect for some reason,
we'll actually start a second
connection attempt to the next
best address while we leave that
first connection attempt going.
We'll keep doing this until we've
run out of addresses to try or until
we've established a connection.
There's a new variant of this in
iOS 6 that we're going to talk about
briefly soon called cellular fallback.
You'll get all of this for free
if you're using CFSocketStream.
If you try and roll your own,
it will take a long time
and it's really hard.
Some other benefits you get
from using CFSocketStream:
we have cellular and
VPN on-demand support built in.
So if you're using sockets directly
and you need to bring up the cellular
interface in order to connect,
there's nothing at the sockets
layer that will trigger that.
The same goes for VPNs.
Nothing at the sockets layer
will trigger the VPN to dial.
If you're using CFSocketStream,
all of that is handled automatically.
In addition, CFSocketStream has built-in
support for TLS and SSL.
It handles both server and
client-side authentication,
so you don't have to roll your own code.
We also have support for SOCKS proxies.
You won't have to write your
own SOCKS proxy support.
Unfortunately,
it's not enabled by default.
Your application is responsible
for calling a function to
fetch the proxy settings out.
And then you need to set the
CFStream property SOCKS proxy's
setting on the CFSocketStream
before you establish the connection.
A new feature in iOS 6 is
something called cellular fallback.
With cellular fallback,
when we have the primary
interface as Wi-Fi,
we'll start a connection
attempt over Wi-Fi,
and we'll set up a timer.
And if for some reason that
connection attempt doesn't succeed
within a short period of time,
we'll actually start a parallel
connection attempt over cellular.
It turns out there are a lot
of Wi-Fi networks out there
that work for most things,
but they block access to certain things.
When we're on a Wi-Fi network,
we'd really like to use that
Wi-Fi network for everything
that'll work over Wi-Fi,
but we don't want to lose access to
all those things that will still work
over cellular just because we happen to
be associated with this Wi-Fi network.
Cellular fallback lets us do that,
where we'll try and connect over Wi-Fi,
but if for some reason we can't,
we'll end up connecting over cellular.
If your application is paying
attention to the WAN flag that you
get back from SC Network Reachability
to indicate whether you're going
to connect over cellular or not,
it might get a little bit
tripped up by this new feature.
We've added some new APIs in iOS
6 to make this a lot simpler.
If your application absolutely
doesn't want to connect
over the cellular interface,
you can set the CFStream property
"no cellular" before you connect,
and whatever we do,
we will not connect you
over the cellular interface.
If, on the other hand,
all you're interested in
is knowing after the fact,
did I end up connecting over cellular,
you can use the CFStream property
"connection is cellular" to determine
whether the connection ended up being
established over the cellular network.
A lot of us use Cocoa to program,
and we'd really like to be
able to use the NSInputStream
and NSOutputStream classes.
Unfortunately,
there's not a great way to create
these classes directly in Cocoa.
You'll need to drop down to the
CF APIs to create these objects.
What we recommend,
if you've got a host name
you want to connect to,
use CFStreamCreatePair
with socket to host.
And if you have a Bonjour service,
go ahead and use CFStreamCreatePair
with socket to NetService.
These will give you back a
CFInputStream and a CFOutputStream,
which you can then use as
NSInputStreams and NSOutputStreams.
If you're using Arc,
it's really important to remember
to use CFBridgingRelease.
Another thing to be aware of is NSHost.
It's only available on
OS X and not on iOS.
It does do asynchronous blocking
resolve wherever it's instantiated,
and for that reason,
we recommend that you avoid it and
do your name lookups in another way.
If you're trying to use HTTP or HTTPS,
the absolute best API on both
iOS and OS X is NSURLConnection.
There is an older
API called CFHTTPStream.
Unfortunately,
CFHTTPStream has some behaviors
that we'd like to improve,
but we can't because some
clients may be depending on them.
If you have existing code
that's using CFHTTPStream,
we strongly recommend you switch
over to using NSURLConnection.
If you're writing new code from scratch,
please use NSURLConnection.
NSURLConnection provides a very
nice asynchronous event-based API.
It has a lot of fantastic features.
It supports persistent connections.
It'll handle pipelining for you.
It handles HTTP as well as
TLS and SSL authentication.
It handles a lot of caching.
It'll handle cookies.
And it'll also take care of SOCKS and
HTTP proxies for you automatically.
You won't have to write any code
to fetch settings or anything else.
It just does what it's supposed to.
It's great.
NSURLConnection goes through
a fairly simple lifecycle.
First, you create an NSURL request.
The NSURL request says,
here's what I'm interested in.
And then you pass the NSURL request
in to create the NSURL connection.
You also specify a delegate.
The delegate will get called as
soon as the request has been sent.
And it'll get notified when
the response comes back.
And it'll get notified as data comes in.
And finally,
it'll get notified when you've
got the end of the resource
or you've got an error.
When you're working with NSURLConnection,
it's important to remember that an
NSURLConnection does not necessarily
correspond to a TCP connection.
NSURLConnection supports persistent
connections and pipelining.
It means we're reusing a single
TCP connection for multiple requests.
NSURLConnection does this by
maintaining a pool of connections.
So when you put together a request,
it will actually go and dynamically
allocate one of the existing connections,
if there is one,
or create a new one from scratch.
In some cases,
we may actually be giving you a
response directly out of the cache,
so there is no TCP connection
involved in there whatsoever.
NSURLConnection has support for
HTTP authentication built in.
It also handles SSL and
TLS authentication.
For HTTP, it supports the basic digest
NTLS and OS X Kerberos methods.
We also handle automatic
proxy authentication.
Your process doesn't necessarily
get access to the credentials
to authenticate to the proxy.
NSURLConnection will take
care of all of it for you.
It's really easy.
If for some reason your application does
want to get involved in authentication,
in your delegate,
you can specify a "will send request
for authentication" challenge method,
and that will give you a chance to
intervene in the default behavior.
NSURLConnection does support pipelining,
but pipelining is not enabled by default.
It's your application's
responsibility to enable pipelining.
When you set up your NSURL request,
you can indicate that you're
interested in pipelining by calling
"set HTTP should use pipelining."
We strongly encourage you to do so.
Any time you can take
advantage of pipelining,
you'll get some huge performance wins.
NSURLConnection has
automatic cache built in.
It's a single shared cache.
You can get it using
NSURLConnection shared URL cache.
It's shared with
everything in your process,
so that includes other frameworks
that you may call that use
NSURLConnection under the covers.
NSURLConnection doesn't really
know about the workload of
your particular application,
so it uses some defaults that may
not be tuned particularly well.
But it works well for the default case.
There is a small in-memory cache that is
about four megabytes and that overflows
into about a 20 megabyte on disk cache.
There is a limit that a single
item in the cache can't take
more than 5% of the cache.
Your application has a
chance to do some tuning.
You can set the memory capacity
as well as the disk capacity.
We recommend that you use
TCP dump and watch the traffic.
Go ahead and run your application through
a typical workload and see if it's
requesting the same resources over again.
If it is, increase the cache until
that no longer happens.
We have some new functionality in iOS 6.
We now support on disk
cache for HTTPS resources.
In the past, HTTPS resources were limited
only to the in-memory cache.
If your application is interested
in displaying web content,
actually rendering it,
the absolute best API is WebKit.
It has support for everything
we've talked about so far.
It has caching support,
it handles proxies, and on iOS,
it actually does pipelining by default.
It's a great API.
If you're going to render web content,
go ahead and use this.
Before we move on, I kind of wanted to
cover timeouts quickly.
There is no such thing as a good timeout.
Round trip times on a network
can be anywhere from less than a
millisecond to well over 30 seconds.
Giving up on some operation can
be a huge disservice to the user.
If you're trying to order
WWDC tickets and the application
had set a 10-second timeout,
and because the servers tend
to be a little bit slower to
respond during that two hours
where the WWDC tickets sell out,
the server takes maybe
12 seconds to respond.
If your application
timed out in 10 seconds,
it's going to be a little
bit slower to respond.
If your application did not respond in
10 seconds but it would have succeeded
if it held on for another two seconds,
you're really doing
your user a disservice.
So it's important to remember not
to use timeouts and cancel things.
It may seem like a good
idea to let the user know,
ah, this probably isn't going to work.
But if there's a chance
it would have worked,
you haven't really helped out the user.
The best technique is to allow
the user to handle the timeout.
Let the user indicate to you they're
interested in something and then keep
working on it until they indicate
they're no longer interested.
This doesn't mean hammer the
network and try and connect every
minute until you get a connection.
You need to be smart about it.
There's a great API in the system
called reachability that lets
you register for notifications
of when the network changes.
Go ahead and make your attempt and if
for some reason it doesn't succeed,
watch for a reachability
change notification.
Don't force the user to
hit refresh at some point.
When you're on a new network,
go ahead and make an attempt again.
Which brings us to mobility.
And we'll also cover a
little bit of cost issues.
We have a number of challenges.
The computers these days fit in pockets.
And they have multiple interfaces.
Some MacBooks still have two interfaces,
Ethernet and Wi-Fi.
A lot of iOS devices have
both Wi-Fi and cellular.
Unfortunately,
the operating system can't just
pick up connections from one
interface and move them to another.
We would love to be able to do that.
But the technology just
doesn't exist today.
It's really important for your
application that you respond to
network change notifications and
do the right thing and migrate.
There's a number of use cases
where this is really important.
If you have somebody on a train and
they've got a cellular data connection,
when they go into a tunnel,
they're going to lose the
Internet connectivity.
If your application throws
up a dialogue and says,
"Oh, my gosh, the Internet's gone," and
they have to dismiss it,
they get frustrated.
They probably already know that the
Internet's gone and they're not really
happy about it and having a dialogue in
their face isn't making them any happier.
So if you can avoid dialogues,
that's good.
The other thing that's really important
is when they get back out of the tunnel,
you don't want to have them have
to babysit your application.
As soon as you see that there's
network connectivity again,
you should go ahead and
reissue the request.
Don't make them wait for the
connectivity to come back and
then hit a refresh button.
That's not a great experience.
Another place where it's really
important to handle this correctly
is when you're migrating from a
cellular network to a Wi-Fi network.
If your application is running on a
device that has cellular connectivity,
your connections are going
over the cellular interface,
when you come into a home environment,
you're going to have a
Wi-Fi interface that will come up,
but your connection doesn't
move over automatically.
Your existing connection over cellular
will continue to work just fine.
The downside is it's probably
a little bit slower and it's
probably a lot more expensive,
both in a power perspective and cost.
It's your application's responsibility
to watch for change notifications
and make the transition from
the cellular interface to the
Wi-Fi interface when you get notified
that that new interface is available.
So we're going to go
over how you handle that.
When you're trying to
establish a connection,
you want to create a reachability object
and then go ahead and make your attempt.
Don't check the reachability object to
determine whether something's available.
It can be deceptive in some cases.
You want to just go ahead
and make the attempt anyhow.
If you succeed, you're done.
If you don't succeed,
you want to wait for another
reachability change notification
before you attempt again.
You keep doing this until you've
finally established a connection
or until the user has indicated
they're no longer interested.
Once you have a connection established,
you still have to stay on your toes.
You want to keep using the reachability
object that you created initially
to establish the connection.
You'll get reachability
change notifications as new
interfaces become available.
This is the case where you might have
an established connection over cellular,
but you come home and
Wi-Fi becomes available.
When you get that reachability
change notification,
you want to try and
establish a new connection.
If you have an existing old connection,
you want to leave that alone and continue
doing work on that old connection.
If the new connection succeeds,
you want to transition all of your
work over to the new connection
and tear down the old connection.
If the new connection doesn't succeed,
no big deal.
You've still got your
old connection working.
You just go back to waiting for
another reachability change and
continue working on the old connection.
There are a lot of issues related to
cost when working on these devices.
They have a finite
amount of battery power.
And a lot of times the data can
actually cost the user a lot of money.
So we need to be very careful about
whatever load we put on the network.
There are a number of techniques we can
use to solve problems related to cost.
The primary thing we do is
avoid sending and receiving
any data that we don't have to.
The first technique is to cache data.
If we can fetch something
out of the cache,
we don't have to pay the money or the
power to get it off of the network.
Another thing that's really important
is making sure that we're fetching
appropriately sized resources.
If we're on a device that
doesn't have a retina display,
there's no point in getting a higher
resolution image that's going to take
more bytes to get across the network.
We can save the user some money and some
power by fetching the lowest resolution
image that's appropriate to their device.
Another thing that's really
important is making sure that
we only fetch what's necessary.
There's no point in fetching data
that the user is never going to use.
They have to pay for it.
They're going to lose a little
bit of battery life for it.
There is sort of a contradictory
technique for saving power,
which is to fetch data in bursts.
When it comes to power on
the cellular interface,
the cellular interface goes into a low
power mode when it isn't sending data,
and it does that based on an aisle timer.
When it is sending data, it's in a very,
very low power mode.
When it's sending data, it's in a very,
very high power mode that drains
the battery fairly quickly.
What you want to do is try and increase
the amount of time you're spending in
low power mode and avoid the amount of
time you're spending in high power mode.
So you can do that by trying to fetch
all of your data in a burst so you keep
it in high power mode but you get as
much done as possible during that time,
and then you stop all network activity.
Pandora takes advantage of this.
When Pandora runs, it downloads the whole
music file at the beginning.
As it plays back,
the interface falls back
into low power mode,
and it saves a lot of
battery power that way.
Pandora could have been written
differently so that it trickled
the data at the bit rate that
it played back the music,
but that would have forced the
cellular interface to stay in a high
power mode for a very long time,
and the battery life
would have been abysmal.
Debugging network applications
can be a real challenge.
So we're going to talk
about some techniques.
One of the problems that you run
into with debugging networking
applications is that if you stop
your application in the debugger
and you're connected to a server,
there's a good chance the server's
going to timeout the connection to you.
Timeouts are evil.
Some of the techniques that make
debugging a lot easier for networking
applications is to add a lot of logging,
or basically resort to printf debugging.
The system provides a whole
lot of logging for you.
It's turned off by default,
but with some techniques,
you can turn a lot of that on,
and you may be able to diagnose
problems without even adding extra
logging to your own application.
So we're going to go over the ways that
you can turn a lot of the logging on.
Another thing that's really
important when debugging networking
problems is packet traces.
It's really important to look
at what your application is
actually putting on the network.
Looking at that in a TCP dump
can be a real challenge.
Fortunately there's a great
tool out there called TCP trace
which we'll cover as well.
One technique that can be
really useful for debugging is
to have a TLS or SSL bypass.
It's really important that if you put
this in you don't ship it because it
can become a security vulnerability.
But when you're looking at packet traces,
if you're looking at ciphertext,
it can be really hard.
But if you're looking at the clear text,
it can make things a lot more
clear and easier to understand.
Another issue you run into when
debugging networking applications
is that the network environment that
you run on is probably a really nice,
fast network with low latency.
This is a pretty unrealistic experience.
Our users are out there running
on more realistic networks
that have very high latency,
they have very little bandwidth.
They're running into all kinds
of problems that we don't
run into on a daily basis.
Fortunately we have some tools so you can
simulate the less... The more realistic,
less performant networks so you can
make sure that your application will
perform well in those environments.
For CF network,
there's a lot of debugging that you can
get... A lot of logging you can get.
You can enable a CF network
diagnostic environment variable on
OS X and that will force CF network
to log all of this information to
the system log as well as a file.
This is a log information related to
connecting and data flow if you're using
CFSocketStream or NSURLConnection or
basically anything above CFSocketStream.
If you set this to 1,
it includes a lot of internal CF network
and event and state information.
If you set it to 2,
it adds a bunch of information about
how it decides to reuse existing
connections or establish new connections,
if you're using the persistent
connections or pipelining.
If you set this to 3,
it has a very powerful feature
where it will actually log all
the TLS and SSL decrypted content.
This can be really useful
for debugging problems,
but it's also very dangerous.
Be very careful about how you use this.
A lot of times,
the things that are encrypted with
TLS and SSL are done so for a reason,
and with this logging turned on,
it'll end up going to the system log,
which anybody can get access to.
So you need to be kind
of careful with this.
You can set another environment variable,
CFNetworkIO_LOG_FILE,
and that'll force all of the clear text
to get output to that file instead.
If you're having trouble
establishing a connection,
a lot of that work happens at
the lib system network layer.
If you're using CF socket
stream or any of those things,
all of that goes through something in lib
system network to establish connections.
This is where the host name
to address resolution occurs,
this is where all of our logic for
how we sort those addresses and
when we decide to try and connect
to different addresses happens.
You can enable the logging on
OS X by using a default write,
you can disable it by
using the default delete,
and then you can actually
display the logs using syslog -w.
Another really important technique
is actually using TCP dump to
look at your packet traces.
We have a new feature in Mountain Lion,
with TCP dump you can show
the process ID of the process
that generated the traffic.
You can use the -k command to do that.
If you're using -k with the -w option to
write all of the packets out to a file,
you can run into some problems
as -k does use a new -w.
If you're using -k with the -w option to
write all of the packets out to a file,
you can run into some problems
as -k does use a new lib
pcap next generation format,
which may not be compatible
with other things.
So be careful if you're using -k with -w.
On the iOS we don't have a command line,
so there's no way to run tcpdump,
but it's still really
important to get packet traces.
Fortunately, we have something called
remote packet capture.
If you have the developer
tools installed,
you can hook up an iOS
device using USB to your Mac,
and you can create a virtual
interface for capturing packets.
You do this using rvicontrol -s,
and you pass in the
UDID of the iOS device.
This will create a virtual
interface like rvi0,
which you can run tcpdump on.
tcpdump will then show you all of the
IPv4 and IPv6 packets going in and out of
all of the interfaces on that iOS device.
When you're all done,
you can use rvicontrol
-x and pass in the UDID,
and it will tear down
the virtual interface.
When you're using tcpdump,
by default it will output a summary
of each packet to the standard out.
You can also have it write to a file
instead of outputting the packets.
You can use the -w option to do so.
And then that packet file can
be used for later analysis or
to be passed into tcp trace.
tcp trace is a fantastic
open source tool.
You can download a copy.
It builds fine on OS X.
It comes from tcptrace.org.
With TCP Trace,
we're going to capture packets using
tcpdump and we're going to use -w to
save all those packets into a file.
We're going to create xpl or xplot
files using TCP Trace from that
packet trace file that we created.
If you have just TCP packets,
you can run tcptrace -g and
pass in the packet file.
If you have HTTP traffic that
isn't encrypted using TLS or SSL,
there's a really nice module
in TCP Trace called XHTTP.
This will actually do some
analysis on the HTTP connections
and it'll show you if you have a
persistent connection or pipelining,
it'll break things down by each
connection and show you when requests
go out and when responses come
back on each of those connections.
It's really useful.
When you run this tool,
it'll spit out the xpl files that
you can then open in jplot or xplot.
Finally, it's really important to test on
realistic network environments.
The network link conditioner
is available on Mac OS X.
If you download the link conditioner,
you can test it on any
network environment.
If you download the hardware I/O tools
for Xcode from developer.apple.com,
there will be a network system
preference pane in the disk image.
You double click on that,
it installs itself.
You can turn it on and you can
simulate network environments that
are worse than your current one.
Unfortunately, you can't simulate better
network environments.
We're still working on that.
On iOS,
we have a new feature in iOS 6 where you
can actually enable this on the device.
If you enable your device
for development in Xcode,
on the device,
you can go into settings under developer,
there should be a network
link conditioner item.
You can use it to run a
network link conditioner.
You can use that to turn the
network link conditioner on and off.
And you can set what kind of
network you want to simulate.
[Transcript missing]
There are some related sessions.
The next session in this room is
simplifying networking with Bonjour.
The best way to discover network
services is using Bonjour,
and they're going to go over the best
practices for using Bonjour and talk
about some cool technologies there.
So as a quick summary,
go ahead and use TCP.
It provides a lot of great services.
Be sure to reuse
existing TCP connections.
Try and perform multiple
concurrent requests on a single
connection where you can.
This lets you take advantage of
fast retransmits and hide latency.
Be sure to make sure that
you support SOCKS proxies.
If you're using HTTP,
make sure that you're using
pipelining everywhere you can.
Make sure that you're also
supporting SOCKS and HTTP proxies.
Thank you very much.